about/index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About Me

---

My name is Ashish Dutt and I love making beautiful charts, the statistical programming language R, black coffee, and red wine.

I completed my first degree in biological sciences in 1995, but I realised my calling was with computer science. I was fascinated with computers. My interest was further piqued, when I saw this `dumb machine` could be `programmed` to compete with the `human brain`. In order to understand how these `dumb machines` can work so efficiently,  I worked  for a decade, in various technical roles from `junior` to `mid-senior level positions`, for top IT companies in India, like `IBM`, `Dell` and `HP`. This practical work experience was instrumental in helping me, to earn a Master's in Computer Science in year 2012. Meanwhile, I worked in academia (teaching and doing research) and ed tech before moving into data science and discovering R. Now, my background in biology, computer science, and education has given me a strong foundation for using data to answer interesting questions and communicate about technical topics with diverse audiences. At present, I'm a PhD candidate in the department of information systems, University of Malaya (UM), Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. My research interest is in unsupervised learning in education. My research guide is [Assoc. Prof. Dr. Maizatul Akmar Ismail](https://umexpert.um.edu.my/maizatul). 

As the tag line suggests, this blog primarily focuses on data analytical activities. I chose to create this blog so as to keep readers with similar interest updated of my research work. The technical aspects of my research work as well my continued tryst with data analysis will be updated here. Look at my work on [Github](https://github.com/duttashi/) 

My blog posts are released under a [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/).
<br /><a rel="license" href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />

Commit message:

modified about page: completely rewrote the page.

about/index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About Me

---

I am fond of **Data Science** and a **R, Python, SQL** enthusiast.
You can find me on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/duttashish_) and [GitHub](https://github.com/duttashi) as @duttashi and on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/users/4195053/ashish?tab=profile) as Ashish.

**Current work**

I am a PhD student (2014-2019) in feature clustering at the Department of Information Systems, [Universiti Malaya](https://www.um.edu.my/), Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

My supervisor is [Maizatul A. Ismail]((https://umexpert.um.edu.my/maizatul)).

I am currently working on a feature clustering approach to improve heterogeneous cluster purity.

I also contribute to R.


- by submitting my own packages on CRAN (or just [GitHub](https://github.com/duttashi?tab=repositories)).
- by [contributing to other projects when I can](https://github.com/pulls?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=author%3Aduttashi+).
- by asking and answering questions on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/users/4195053/ashish?tab=profile).
- by [blogging](https://duttashi.github.io/blog/).   

**Hometown - Education**

I'm from [Jhansi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jhansi), India. I completed my schooling from [La Martiniere College](http://www.lamartinierelucknow.org/), Lucknow. I graduated with a Bachelors in **Science** from [Panjab University](http://puchd.ac.in/), Chandigarh. I obtained a Master's in **Computing** from [Staffordshire University](http://www.staffs.ac.uk/).
