resume/index.md, before:

-------------------------

Email: `ashishdutt@yahoo.com.my` 

- **Research**

	- [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=AIGfYdEAAAAJ&hl=en)
	- [Scopus](https://www.scopus.com/authid/detail.uri?authorId=56294315000)
	- [Orcid](https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3122-9265)  

- **Programming**

	- Github: [duttashi](https://github.com/duttashi/)
	

#### Education
-------------------------------

2014-2020 (expected)

- **PhD**
	
	Faculty of Computer Science and Information Systems, University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 

	Field of Research- Computer Science (mixed data clustering)

	Thesis- A Partition based Feature Selection Approach for Mixed Data Clustering, *accepted with minor corrections*

2010-2012

- **M.Sc**, University of Staffordshire, UK

	Majors: Unsupervised learning (*data mining*)

	Dissertation Title: A Framework for mining the top call drivers as experienced in technical contact centers 	
	[Published paper](http://bit.ly/2tPVqZ5)  

1996-1999

- **B.Sc**, Panjab University, Chandigarh, India

	Majors: Life Science

#### RESEARCH PUBLICATIONS
-------------------------

##### Published articles

1. **Dutt, A**., Ismail, MA. (**2020**), A partition based feature selection approach for mixed data clustering. [journal paper](https://ejournal.um.edu.my/index.php/MJCS/article/view/23531)

2. **Dutt, A**., Ismail, MA. (**2019**), Can we predict student learning performance from LMS data? A classification approach. [conference paper](https://www.atlantis-press.com/proceedings/iccie-18/125910340)

3. **Dutt, A**., Ismail, MA., Herawan, T. (**2017**), A systematic review on educational data mining. [journal paper](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7820050/)

4. Sardareh, S. A., Aghabozorgi, S., & **Dutt, A**. (**2015**). Applying clustering approach to analyze reflective dialogues and students’ problem solving ability. [journal paper](http://www.indjst.org/index.php/indjst/article/view/70657/0)

5. **Dutt, A.**, Aghabozrgi, S., Maizatul, A.B.I., Mahroeian, H. (**2014**). Clustering algorithms applied in educational data mining [journal paper](http://www.ijiee.org/vol5/513-F1002.pdf)

6. **Dutt, A.**, Aghabozrgi. (**2014**). A framework for mining top call drivers as experienced in technical contact centres to facilitate self help portals [conference paper](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/266149265_A_Framework_for_Mining_Top_Call_Drivers_as_Experienced_in_Technical_Contact_Centers_to_Facilitate_Self_Help_Portals)

7. Aghabozrgi, S., Mahroeian, H., **Dutt, A**., Wah, T.Y., Herawan, T. (**2014**). An approachable analytical study on big educational data mining [conference paper](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-09156-3_50)

7. Sardareh, S. A., Aghabozrgi, S., & **Dutt, A**. (**2014**). Reflective Dialogues and Students' Problem Solving Ability Analysis Using Clustering [conference paper](https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/4f03/a16b55b113e3256cc786a6c5a4c5c8899e77.pdf)

##### Under review articles

- Year 2020

	- **Dutt, A**, Ismail, MA., An alternative soft set approach for enrollment conflicts in state-controlled primary schools in Delhi

#### Reviewer
------------------------- 

I serve as a reviewer to several international journals. *Peer-review is a voluntary service and one is not paid for it.* 

<!-- start Publons.com widget -->
<iframe src="https://publons.com/author/1324629/widget/embed/?width=640&height=460" width="640" height="460" style="border: solid 1px #ddd;"></iframe>
<!-- end Publons.com widget -->

##### Active reviewer for the following journals

- <span style="color:green"> **IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering** Journal (ISSN: 1041-4347) - *ISI indexed* </span>

IEEE Trans on Knowledge and Data Engineering, is a *Q1* (JCR year 2018) journal in *Computer Science, Artificial Intelligence & Information Systems*, with an impact factor of 3.85. It is published by IEEE, USA. It publishes 12 issues/year.

- <span style="color:green"> **IEEE Access** Journal (ISSN: 2169-3536) - *ISI indexed*</span>

IEEE Access is an Open Access journal. It is a *Q1* (JCR year 2016) journal in *Computer Science* with an impact factor of 2.95. It is published by IEEE, USA.

- <span style="color:green"> **IEEE Transactions on Learning Technologies** Journal (ISSN: 1939-1382) - *ISI indexed* </span>

IEEE Transactions on Learning Technologies is a *Q2* (JCR year 2016) journal in *Computer Science and Interdisciplinary Applications* with an impact factor of 2.083. It is published by IEEE Computer Society from California, USA. It publishes **4 issues/year**

- <span style="color:green"> **Kybernetes** Journal (ISSN: 0368-492X) - *ISI indexed*</span>

Kybernetes is a *Q4* (JCR year 2016) journal in *Computer Science and Cybernetics* with an impact factor of 0.811. It is published by Emerald group at Yorkshire, England and publishes **10 issues/year**.
Review speed (1st Decision): **6 weeks**

- <span style="color:green"> **International Journal of Electrical and Computer Engineering (IJECE)** Journal (ISSN: 2088-8708) - *Scopus indexed*</span>

IJECE is published by the Institute of Advanced Engineering and Science (IAES) with an impact factor of 0.99 and *Q2 in Computer Science*. Review speed (1st Decision): **8 weeks**

- <span style="color:green"> **International Journal of Educational Technology in Higher Education** Journal (ISSN: 2365-9440) - *Scopus indexed*</span>

[ETHE](https://educationaltechnologyjournal.springeropen.com/about) is associated with Universitat Oberta de Catalunya and published by Springer Nature. It has an impact factor of 1.33 in Scopus. Subject area: Education, Computer Science Applications. Review speed (1st Decision): **21 days**, Acceptance to Publication: **28 days** 

- <span style="color:green"> **Research in Learning Technology** Journal (ISSN: 2156-7069) - *Scopus Indexed*</span>

Published by the Association for Learning Technology. There is no publication fees. [Link](https://journal.alt.ac.uk/index.php/rlt/index)

- <span style="color:green"> **Soft Computing** Journal (ISSN: 1432-7643) - *ISI indexed* </span>
is dedicated to system solutions based on soft computing techniques. It is published by Springer Berlin Heidelberg. Subject area: Computer Science Applications. 
Review speed (1st Decision): **45 days**

##### Past/Inactive reviewer for the following journals

- <span style="color:red"> **IETE Journal of Research** Journal (ISSN: 0377-2063) - *ISI indexed* </span>
is a bimonthly Q4 journal published by the Institution of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineers (IETE), India. 
It publishes **6 issues/year**.

- <span style="color:red"> **Journal of Educational Data Mining** (ISSN: 2157-2100) - *Not indexed* </span> I reviewed one article for this journal. The paper style was single column and was **45 pages long!!**. It was mostly *social science based*. Also, post review, I did not receive the final decision email from the journal. I had to write to the journal editor requesting one!
Thereafter, I was invited to review another article. When I asked for the paper length and final decision email, the journal **never responded**!  

#### CAREER PATH
-------------------------

##### Industry Experience

- Senior Data Scientist (Dec 2019 - Feb 2020)
- Data Scientist (May 2019 - Dec 2019)
- Data Analyst (Jun 2015 - Apr 2016)
- Technical Consultant Level 2 (Dec 2009 - Feb 2011)
- Technical Consultant Level 1 (Jul 2006 - Dec 2009)

##### Research & Teaching Experience

- Graduate Research Assistant (Jul 2014 - current)
- Lecturer (Applied Statistics) (Jun 2017 - May 2018)
- Project Assistant (Applied Statistics) (Apr 2004 - Sep 2006)
- Senior Lecturer (Applied Statistics) (Dec 2002 - Mar 2004)
- Lecturer (Applied Statistics) (Jul 1999 - Nov 2002)
 
#### Programming Skills
-------------------------

- R<sup>1</sup>
- Python<sup>2</sup>
- SQL <sup>2</sup>  

*Legend:* 

- <sup>**1**</sup> expert knowledge
- <sup>**2**</sup> intermediate knowledge 


#### Ongoing Project
-----------------------

1.	**Project: To develop a partition based feature selection algorithm for mixed data clustering**
	
	Project commissioned by: Department of Information System, University of Malaya 
	
	SDLC process methodology: Scrum
	
	Technologies stack: R

#### Completed Projects
-----------------------

1.	**Project: A predictive analytic model to determine the run time, and, end of life of electric grids deployed in Bangladesh**
	
	Project commissioned by: [Edotoco](https://edotcogroup.com/malaysia/) Sdn Bhd
	
	SDLC process methodology: Scrum
	
	Technologies stack: R, PowerBI

2.	**Project: A classification approach to model the employee flight risk behaviour**

	Project duration: March-May 2019

	Objective: Determine the factors which contribute to accurately predicting flight risk behaviour proclivities in employees.

	Deliverable: Used the labor force data and performed exploratory, inferential and predictive data analysis. The findings are listed on my [research blog](http://bit.ly/2lswF51) and the R code is listed on GitHub. See [exploratory data analysis code](https://github.com/duttashi/learnr/blob/master/scripts/Full%20Case%20Studies/CaseStudy-hr_attrition-EDA.R) and [predictive modeling](https://github.com/duttashi/learnr/blob/master/scripts/Full%20Case%20Studies/CaseStudy-hr_attrition-Predictive_Modelling.R).


2.	**Project: Predicting employment related factors in Malaysia- A regression analysis approach**

	Project duration: February 2017

	Objective: Determine the factors which contribute to accurately predicting unemployment rate from historical statistical data on labour force data in Malaysia.

	Deliverable: Used the labor force data from the [Department of Statistics](http://bit.ly/2mh2lXh), Malaysia and performed exploratory, inferential and predictive data analysis. The findings are listed on my [research blog](http://bit.ly/2lswF51) and the R code is listed on [GitHub](https://bit.ly/2HIQrT7).

3.	**Project: Predicting rubber plantation yield- A regression analysis approach**

	Project duration: February 2017

	Objective: To determine the factors which contribute to accurately predicting high rubber yield per kg based on historical rubber plantation data.

	Deliverable: Used the agriculture [data](http://bit.ly/2mh2lXh) from the Department of Statistics, Malaysia and performed predictive analytics. The findings are presented on my [blog](http://bit.ly/2mh9bvS) and the R code is listed [GitHub](https://github.com/duttashi/learnr/blob/master/scripts/Full%20Case%20Studies/CaseStudy-MY-RubberPlantation.R).

4.	**Project: House price prediction using advanced regression techniques**

	Project duration: September-November 2016

	Objective: Analyze the dataset to improve upon feature engineering and advanced regression algorithms like random forests, gradient boosting with xgboost

	Deliverable: Used the Ames housing [dataset](http://bit.ly/2gJ1f3K) and performed exploratory and inferential data analysis. The findings are listed on my [blog](http://bit.ly/2njWxgr) and the R code is listed on [GitHub](https://github.com/duttashi/learnr/blob/master/scripts/Full%20Case%20Studies/CaseStudy-AV-DreamHouse.R).

Commit message:

modified resume page
- revised the Education section
- Moved phd thesis project from ongoing to completed section
- added links of ongoing projects in ongoing section

resume/index.md, after:

-------------------------

Email: `ashishdutt@yahoo.com.my` 

- **Research**

	- [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=AIGfYdEAAAAJ&hl=en)
	- [Scopus](https://www.scopus.com/authid/detail.uri?authorId=56294315000)
	- [Orcid](https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3122-9265)  

- **Programming**

	- Github: [duttashi](https://github.com/duttashi/)
	

#### Education
-------------------------------

2014-2020

- **PhD**
	
	Department of Information Systems, Faculty of Computer Science and Information Systems (FCSIT), University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 

	Field of Research- Computer Science (Mixed Data Clustering)

	Thesis- A Partition based Feature Selection Approach for Mixed Data Clustering

2010-2012

- **M.Sc**

	University of Staffordshire, UK

	Field of Research: Computer Science (Clustering)

	Dissertation Title: A Framework for mining the top call drivers as experienced in technical contact centers 	
	[Published paper](http://bit.ly/2tPVqZ5)  

1996-1999

- **B.Sc**

	Panjab University, Chandigarh, India

	Major: Life Science

#### RESEARCH PUBLICATIONS
-------------------------

##### Published articles

1. **Dutt, A**., Ismail, MA. (**2020**), A partition based feature selection approach for mixed data clustering. [journal paper](https://ejournal.um.edu.my/index.php/MJCS/article/view/23531)

2. **Dutt, A**., Ismail, MA. (**2019**), Can we predict student learning performance from LMS data? A classification approach. [conference paper](https://www.atlantis-press.com/proceedings/iccie-18/125910340)

3. **Dutt, A**., Ismail, MA., Herawan, T. (**2017**), A systematic review on educational data mining. [journal paper](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7820050/)

4. Sardareh, S. A., Aghabozorgi, S., & **Dutt, A**. (**2015**). Applying clustering approach to analyze reflective dialogues and students’ problem solving ability. [journal paper](http://www.indjst.org/index.php/indjst/article/view/70657/0)

5. **Dutt, A.**, Aghabozrgi, S., Maizatul, A.B.I., Mahroeian, H. (**2014**). Clustering algorithms applied in educational data mining [journal paper](http://www.ijiee.org/vol5/513-F1002.pdf)

6. **Dutt, A.**, Aghabozrgi. (**2014**). A framework for mining top call drivers as experienced in technical contact centres to facilitate self help portals [conference paper](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/266149265_A_Framework_for_Mining_Top_Call_Drivers_as_Experienced_in_Technical_Contact_Centers_to_Facilitate_Self_Help_Portals)

7. Aghabozrgi, S., Mahroeian, H., **Dutt, A**., Wah, T.Y., Herawan, T. (**2014**). An approachable analytical study on big educational data mining [conference paper](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-09156-3_50)

7. Sardareh, S. A., Aghabozrgi, S., & **Dutt, A**. (**2014**). Reflective Dialogues and Students' Problem Solving Ability Analysis Using Clustering [conference paper](https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/4f03/a16b55b113e3256cc786a6c5a4c5c8899e77.pdf)

##### Under review articles

- Year 2020

	- **Dutt, A**, Ismail, MA., An alternative soft set approach for enrollment conflicts in state-controlled primary schools in Delhi

#### Reviewer
------------------------- 

I serve as a reviewer to several international journals. *Peer-review is a voluntary service and one is not paid for it.* 

<!-- start Publons.com widget -->
<iframe src="https://publons.com/author/1324629/widget/embed/?width=640&height=460" width="640" height="460" style="border: solid 1px #ddd;"></iframe>
<!-- end Publons.com widget -->

##### Active reviewer for the following journals

- <span style="color:green"> **IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering** Journal (ISSN: 1041-4347) - *ISI indexed* </span>

IEEE Trans on Knowledge and Data Engineering, is a *Q1* (JCR year 2018) journal in *Computer Science, Artificial Intelligence & Information Systems*, with an impact factor of 3.85. It is published by IEEE, USA. It publishes 12 issues/year.

- <span style="color:green"> **IEEE Access** Journal (ISSN: 2169-3536) - *ISI indexed*</span>

IEEE Access is an Open Access journal. It is a *Q1* (JCR year 2016) journal in *Computer Science* with an impact factor of 2.95. It is published by IEEE, USA.

- <span style="color:green"> **IEEE Transactions on Learning Technologies** Journal (ISSN: 1939-1382) - *ISI indexed* </span>

IEEE Transactions on Learning Technologies is a *Q2* (JCR year 2016) journal in *Computer Science and Interdisciplinary Applications* with an impact factor of 2.083. It is published by IEEE Computer Society from California, USA. It publishes **4 issues/year**

- <span style="color:green"> **Kybernetes** Journal (ISSN: 0368-492X) - *ISI indexed*</span>

Kybernetes is a *Q4* (JCR year 2016) journal in *Computer Science and Cybernetics* with an impact factor of 0.811. It is published by Emerald group at Yorkshire, England and publishes **10 issues/year**.
Review speed (1st Decision): **6 weeks**

- <span style="color:green"> **International Journal of Electrical and Computer Engineering (IJECE)** Journal (ISSN: 2088-8708) - *Scopus indexed*</span>

IJECE is published by the Institute of Advanced Engineering and Science (IAES) with an impact factor of 0.99 and *Q2 in Computer Science*. Review speed (1st Decision): **8 weeks**

- <span style="color:green"> **International Journal of Educational Technology in Higher Education** Journal (ISSN: 2365-9440) - *Scopus indexed*</span>

[ETHE](https://educationaltechnologyjournal.springeropen.com/about) is associated with Universitat Oberta de Catalunya and published by Springer Nature. It has an impact factor of 1.33 in Scopus. Subject area: Education, Computer Science Applications. Review speed (1st Decision): **21 days**, Acceptance to Publication: **28 days** 

- <span style="color:green"> **Research in Learning Technology** Journal (ISSN: 2156-7069) - *Scopus Indexed*</span>

Published by the Association for Learning Technology. There is no publication fees. [Link](https://journal.alt.ac.uk/index.php/rlt/index)

- <span style="color:green"> **Soft Computing** Journal (ISSN: 1432-7643) - *ISI indexed* </span>
is dedicated to system solutions based on soft computing techniques. It is published by Springer Berlin Heidelberg. Subject area: Computer Science Applications. 
Review speed (1st Decision): **45 days**

##### Past/Inactive reviewer for the following journals

- <span style="color:red"> **IETE Journal of Research** Journal (ISSN: 0377-2063) - *ISI indexed* </span>
is a bimonthly Q4 journal published by the Institution of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineers (IETE), India. 
It publishes **6 issues/year**.

- <span style="color:red"> **Journal of Educational Data Mining** (ISSN: 2157-2100) - *Not indexed* </span> I reviewed one article for this journal. The paper style was single column and was **45 pages long!!**. It was mostly *social science based*. Also, post review, I did not receive the final decision email from the journal. I had to write to the journal editor requesting one!
Thereafter, I was invited to review another article. When I asked for the paper length and final decision email, the journal **never responded**!  

#### CAREER PATH
-------------------------

##### Industry Experience

- Senior Data Scientist (Dec 2019 - Feb 2020)
- Data Scientist (May 2019 - Dec 2019)
- Data Analyst (Jun 2015 - Apr 2016)
- Technical Consultant Level 2 (Dec 2009 - Feb 2011)
- Technical Consultant Level 1 (Jul 2006 - Dec 2009)

##### Research & Teaching Experience

- Graduate Research Assistant (Jul 2014 - current)
- Lecturer (Applied Statistics) (Jun 2017 - May 2018)
- Project Assistant (Applied Statistics) (Apr 2004 - Sep 2006)
- Senior Lecturer (Applied Statistics) (Dec 2002 - Mar 2004)
- Lecturer (Applied Statistics) (Jul 1999 - Nov 2002)
 
#### Programming Skills
-------------------------

- R<sup>1</sup>
- Python<sup>2</sup>
- SQL <sup>2</sup>  

*Legend:* 

- <sup>**1**</sup> expert knowledge
- <sup>**2**</sup> intermediate knowledge 


#### Ongoing Project('s)
-----------------------

Independent projects on [text mining](https://github.com/duttashi/text-analysis), [applied machine learning](https://github.com/duttashi/applied-machine-learning) and [web-data scraping](https://github.com/duttashi/scrapers)  

#### Completed Projects
-----------------------

1.	**Project: To develop a partition based feature selection algorithm for mixed data clustering**
	
	Project commissioned by: Department of Information System, University of Malaya 
	
	SDLC process methodology: Scrum
	
	Technologies stack: R

2.	**Project: A predictive analytic model to determine the run time, and, end of life of electric grids deployed in Bangladesh**
	
	Project commissioned by: [Edotoco](https://edotcogroup.com/malaysia/) Sdn Bhd
	
	SDLC process methodology: Scrum
	
	Technologies stack: R, PowerBI

3.	**Project: A classification approach to model the employee flight risk behaviour**

	Project duration: March-May 2019

	Objective: Determine the factors which contribute to accurately predicting flight risk behaviour proclivities in employees.

	Deliverable: Used the labor force data and performed exploratory, inferential and predictive data analysis. The findings are listed on my [research blog](http://bit.ly/2lswF51) and the R code is listed on GitHub. See [exploratory data analysis code](https://github.com/duttashi/learnr/blob/master/scripts/Full%20Case%20Studies/CaseStudy-hr_attrition-EDA.R) and [predictive modeling](https://github.com/duttashi/learnr/blob/master/scripts/Full%20Case%20Studies/CaseStudy-hr_attrition-Predictive_Modelling.R).

4.	**Project: Predicting employment related factors in Malaysia- A regression analysis approach**

	Project duration: February 2017

	Objective: Determine the factors which contribute to accurately predicting unemployment rate from historical statistical data on labour force data in Malaysia.

	Deliverable: Used the labor force data from the [Department of Statistics](http://bit.ly/2mh2lXh), Malaysia and performed exploratory, inferential and predictive data analysis. The findings are listed on my [research blog](http://bit.ly/2lswF51) and the R code is listed on [GitHub](https://bit.ly/2HIQrT7).

5.	**Project: Predicting rubber plantation yield- A regression analysis approach**

	Project duration: February 2017

	Objective: To determine the factors which contribute to accurately predicting high rubber yield per kg based on historical rubber plantation data.

	Deliverable: Used the agriculture [data](http://bit.ly/2mh2lXh) from the Department of Statistics, Malaysia and performed predictive analytics. The findings are presented on my [blog](http://bit.ly/2mh9bvS) and the R code is listed [GitHub](https://github.com/duttashi/learnr/blob/master/scripts/Full%20Case%20Studies/CaseStudy-MY-RubberPlantation.R).

6.	**Project: House price prediction using advanced regression techniques**

	Project duration: September-November 2016

	Objective: Analyze the dataset to improve upon feature engineering and advanced regression algorithms like random forests, gradient boosting with xgboost

	Deliverable: Used the Ames housing [dataset](http://bit.ly/2gJ1f3K) and performed exploratory and inferential data analysis. The findings are listed on my [blog](http://bit.ly/2njWxgr) and the R code is listed on [GitHub](https://github.com/duttashi/learnr/blob/master/scripts/Full%20Case%20Studies/CaseStudy-AV-DreamHouse.R).
